Hi, welcome back.
In this video we're talking about ordering and limiting.
These are two things you can do with Sequel
that can be pretty handy in a number of scenarios.
Let's have this purchases table here
that has three columns and four rows.
Notice how there's an id, an amount,
the money that was paid for this purchase,
and also a date which is a Unix timestamp.
We could do something like this:
Select star from purchases,
and now instead of where, or indeed,
as well as where, we can use order by amount.
This is going to order in ascending fashion,
giving us something like this:
9.99 at the top, followed by 14.99, 15.99 and 150.
Of course we could order by amount descending instead
by just putting DESC on the end for descending.
And that gives us 150 at the top going down to 9.99,
and if for some reason you wanted to make it explicit,
that you wanted ascending,
you can use ASC instead of DESC.
Ascending is the default so you don't
have to include it in Sequel Light,
but it's possible that other database systems
may be different.
You can order by amount descending,
that's the largest at the top,
and limit one, and that's gonna give you only the top
most row of your database.
That's the most expensive purchase that anybody has made,
and potentially you could do then things like,
notify the user that has made this purchase
and tell them they've won a voucher or something
for spending the most money in your store.
I don't know, but you see the, you see the deal there.
You can get the top most of something,
and indeed instead of limit one,
you can do limit two, or limit three,
if you wanna get the top three of something.
So these two, order by and limit,
are pretty handy to use, and you can use them together.
If you wanted to put a where clause,
it would go before the order by clause.
So you can also put that in there.
Again, this course is not meant to be a in depth
Sequel tutorial.
I just wanted to guide you enough
so that you can sort of interact with tables,
and store and retrieve some data.
If you want to learn much more about Sequel,
then I'd encourage you to go and investigate,
read stuff online,
implement your own projects that use them,
and learn through that,
and of course you can also take some
other courses if you are so inclined.
But that's it for this video.
I just wanted to guide you through ordering and limiting,
and I'll see you on the next one.